about this Maran bashara who's joining
us via skite from Paris Marwan good to
have you with us on the newsour uh I
want to talk to you about these
increased Israeli actions in the
occupied West Bank what changes have you
noticed in the way the Israelis have
responded to these demonstrations
against the occupation demonstrations
which are not new but the Israel tactics
in in responding to them seems to have
changed oh there's no doubt about that
Israel has used uh its rivaling genocide
in Gaza the war on Gaza in order to
execute similar policies though not at
the same scale yet uh in the West Bank
and uh clearly we've seen uh a degree of
repression of
intervention of um of of military
deployment in various parts of the West
Bank that we haven't seen at least since
2002 so clearly the Israelis are up to
no good um in the West Bank now the it
happened to be that uh this sort of
solidarity movement with the Palestinian
people in fact started back with the
second intifada around 2001
2002 when International observers um
like aishan would appear on the West
Bank and uh would witness they are
international Witnesses of Israeli
crimes against the palestin Ian people
and I think it was in the same vein that
we had similar um Witnesses in Gaza the
idea was uh that the world is not going
to Simply turn its back that those young
people would show up there and Israel
would not be able to uh take advantage
of international indifference and
continue to repress the Palestinians so
that protist movement has continued for
the past 20 years except that Israel
with its fanatic fascist likee
government
it's really cracking down not only in
the Palestinians but on the
international movement that is
witnessing observing and supporting tell
us more about the ways in which the
occupation itself has changed since the
war on Gaza began and what is ultimately
the israeli's objective in the occupied
Westbank well to be to be to be um
accurate the overall change happen over
time
uh notably as uh Israel uh grew more
fanatic and more fascist and its
government became more radical more
extreme and certainly more uh religious
like this government and the previous
government we've seen the expansion of
illegal settlements the theft of land
the um
incursion into Palestinian cities that
are considered part of so-called area a
meaning they are supposed to be part and
parcel of the jurisdiction of the
Palestinian Authority not Israel but
over the past few years and especially
uh the past year Israel has uh deployed
its troops even to places like ramala
you know the the basic the de facto
center of the Palestinian Authority so
the repression the theft um the killings
in the West Bank uh is basically now
happening in huge scale probably
unprecedented and it seems that it's
going to continue and that's the worst
part of it meaning the worst part is not
behind us that perhaps it's in front of
us because the Fanatics in this Nan
governments are threatening that after
Gaza it will be the West Bank right and
and what is also concerning here I guess
is that there is no um international
power uh outside power that seems to be
willing to reign in the Israelis uh when
you look at the case of this American
Turkish activist for example she is
American but the Americans so far have
not said they would launch an
investigation into a killing how do you
reflect on that and how how do we ensure
uh that any you know that there is
accountability for this killing and
other killings that have occurred in the
West Bank but also the Gaza Strip of
course this is the thing for you right
there is no
accountability there's accounting right
in America in the end of the day people
are are dying in their thousands every
day right I mean in New York and Chicago
and Los Angeles and and Miami people die
all the time the value of human life in
America is not necessarily that
important and people die Americans die
all over the world all the time their
their lives count when they for example
die in Russia or they die in China or
die in Venezuela but when they are
killed by an American Ally their life
does not really count that much the
accounting is the accounting of je
politics there is no accountability
really that's why when you hear the
likes of Miller going like uh transparen
credibility blah blah blah I don't even
understand what he said clearly he
didn't mean what he said when he talked
about credible
transparent and Rapid investigation into
the killing of a he did not mean that
and the Administration does not mean
that and when we talk about hypocrisy or
double standard there is no double
standard really I mean there is but
there isn't when it comes to foreign
policy there's one standard Power
American power so America support its
Ally Israel support its Ally Ukraine it
doesn't matter how much violation of
Human Rights Israel and Ukraine carry
what matters is what sort of human
violation Hamas or Iran or Russia or
China carry so all of these issues
really are defined within the
geopolitics of American foreign policy
we must continue to demand for
accountability for justice for the end
of American hypocrisy but we must also
recognize all the time that this is and
has been part and parcel of American SL
Western foreign policy they might be
democracies but their foreign policy
is not Democratic Maran always good to
hear your analysis Maran bashara is our
senior political analyst live there in
Paris
meanwhile make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz